.TH SKYCAT "1" "March 2009" "SKYCAT" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
skycat - A tool for displaying astronomical images and catalogs

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B skycat 
\fIfilename \-option value ...\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
The ESO Skycat tool combines the image display capabilities of the RTD
(Real-Time Display) with a set of classes for accessing astronomical
catalogs locally and over the network using HTTP. The tool allows you
to view FITS images from files or from the Digitized Sky Survey (DSS).

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-file filename\fR
Specify a FITS file to display. '\-' means read the file from
the standard input.  The '\-file' part is optional, so you can
also simply specify a file name. Image compression and
decompression is done automatically, based on the file name
suffix: .gzfits or .gfits for GZIP compression, .hfits for
H-compress, and .cfits for UNIX compression.
.TP
\fB\-cat bool\fR
If bool is 1, include 'Data-Servers' menu in the menubar (This
is the default). The 'Data-Servers' menu gives you access to
the ESO Archive extensions for browsing astronomical catalogs,
plotting objects in the image window and getting images over
the network from the image servers, such as the Digitized Sky
server.
.TP
\fB\-rtd bool\fR
If bool is 1, include the Real-Time menu in the menubar
(default is 0). The Real-Time menu gives you access to the VLT
Real-Time Display features, such as camera control and rapid
frames. To use these features, the rtdServer daemon must be
running on the local host. A client application, linked with
the Rtd image event library can then send images via shared
memory to be displayed in rapid succession. 
.TP
\fB\-float_panel bool\fR
If the option value is 1, the skycat info panel is put in a
separate popup window, leaving more space for the image window
(The default is off).
.TP
\fB\-panel_layout <saoimage | reverse | default>\fR
With this option you can change the order of the zoom and pan
windows in the layout. The default layout is: zoom window on
the left, info panel in the center and pan window right. If
"\-panel_layout saoimage" is specified, a layout similar to
saoimage is used (info panel, pan window, zoom window). If
"\-panel_layout reverse" is specified, the order of the windows
is the reverse of the default.
.TP
\fB\-remote bool\fR
If "\-remote 1" is specified and a skycat process is already
running, the existing skycat process is sent a message and
asked to open a new window and the new skycat process exits
immediately. This has the advantage of sharing the image
colormap and using fewer system resources, however it depends
on being able to use the Tcl send mechanism. For security
reasons, Tcl send will not work if you are using "xhost" based
X security. You need to use X-auth security. See the "Tcl/Tk
Tools" book from O'Reilly for more on this topic.
.TP
\fB\-min_scale n\fR
.TP
\fB\-max_scale n\fR
Specify the min and max scale values for the Magnification
menu.  Negative values shrink the image, positive values zoom
in closer. The default values are \-10 and 20.
.TP
\fB-port portnum\fR
Specify a port number to use for the remote RTD socket
interface. See the Rtd User's Guide for details on this socket
based interface. By default, a port number is chosen
automatically and written to the file ~/.rtd-remote.
.TP
\fB\-disp_image_icon bool\fR
If bool is 1 (default), display a miniature version of the
image in the tool's icon window.
.TP
\fB\-default_cmap <cmap>\fR
Specify the default colormap. This should be one of the names
listed in the 'Colors' popup window (default is 'real'). 
.TP
\fB\-default_itt <itt>\fR
Specify the default intensity transfer table. This should be
one of the names listed in the 'Colors' popup window (default
is 'ramp').
.TP
\fB\-colorramp_height <pixels>\fR
This option can be used to change the height of color bar (the
widget at the bottom of the screen displaying the image
colors).
.TP
\fB\-with_colorramp bool\fR
If bool is true, display the color bar (default).
.TP
\fB\-with_zoom_window bool\fR
If bool is true, display the zoom window (default).
.TP
\fB\-with_pan_window bool \fR
If bool is true, display the pan window (default).
.TP
\fB\-dozoom bool\fR
If bool is true, turn the zoom window on automatically
(default).

.SH MENU ITEMS
.SS File menu
.TP
\fBOpen...\fR
Open and display a (FITS) image file.
.TP
\fBReopen...\fR
Reload the image display after the image has changed
on disk.
.TP
\fBSave as...\fR
Save the current image to a file.
.TP
\fBSave region as...\fR
Save a section of the current image to a file.
.TP
\fBPrint...\fR
Print the current image to a file or printer.
.TP
\fBClear\fR
Clear the image display.
.TP
\fBNew Window\fR
Display up a new main window.
.TP
\fBClose\fR
Close the main window and exit if there are no more
windows.
.TP
\fBExit\fR
Exit the application.

.SS View menu
.TP
\fBColors...\fR
Display a window for manipulating the image colormap.
.TP
\fBCut Levels...\fR
Display a window for manipulating the image cut levels.
.TP
\fBCuts...\fR
Display a graph of pixel values along a line drawn
interactively over the image.
.TP
\fBPick Object...\fR
Select an object or star in the image and display
statistics.
.TP
\fBFits Header...\fR
Display the FITS header for the current image.
.TP
\fBPixel Table...\fR
Display a table of pixel values surrounding the mouse
cursor.
.TP
\fBMagnification\fR
Set the magnification factor of the image display.
.TP
\fBHide Control Panel\fR
Toggle the visibility of the upper control panel
.TP
\fBHide Popup Windows\fR
Toggle the visibility of the popup windows.

.SS Graphics menu
.TP
\fBToolbox\fR
Display the line graphics toolbox.
.TP
\fBMode =>\fR
Select the drawing mode.
.TP
\fBWidth =>\fR
Set the line width for drawing.
.TP
\fBArrow =>\fR
Select the arrow mode for lines.
.TP
\fBArrorShape =>\fR
Select the arrow shape for lines.
.TP
\fBFill =>\fR
Select the fill color for drawing.
.TP
\fBOutline =>\fR
Select the outline color for drawing.
.TP
\fBStipple =>\fR
Select the stipple pattern for filling objects.
.TP
\fBFont =>\fR
Select the font to use for labels.
.TP
\fBSmooth =>\fR
Set the smooth option for drawing polygons

.TP
\fBClear =>\fR
Delete graphic objects.
.TP
\fBDelete =>\fR
Delete selected graphic objects.
.TP
\fBHide Graphics\fR
Toggle the visibility of the image line graphics

.SS Data-Servers
.TP
\fBCatalogs =>\fR
Select a catalog from the menu.
.TP
\fBImage Servers =>\fR
Select an image server from the menu.
.TP
\fBArchives =>\fR
Select an archive from the menu.
.TP
\fBLocal Catalogs =>\fR
Select a local catalog from the menu.

.SS Real-time menu (displayed when -rtd 1 is specified)
.TP
\fBAttach Camera\fR
Attach the real-time camera - start receiving images.
.TP
\fBDetach Camera\fR
Detach the real-time camera - stop receiving images.
.TP
\fBSet Camera...\fR
Set the real-time camera name.
.TP
\fBRapid Frame	\fR
Create a rapid frame by interactively drawing a
rectangle on the image.

.SS Help menu
.TP
\fBAbout Skycat...\fR
Display a window with information about this Skycat
version.
.TP
\fBHelp...\fR
Display information about Skycat in netscape (if
netscape is available).

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP 
\fB$SKYCAT_CONFIG \fR
If set, this is used as the URL to access the skycat
configuration file, which contains the list of available
catalogs and how to query them. By default, the configuration
file is also searched for in $HOME/.skycat/skycat.cfg, and if
that is not found, in the ESO default URL:
http://archive.eso.org/skycat/skycat2.0.cfg.
.TP
\fB$SKYCAT_PLUGIN\fR
If set, this variable should be a colon separated list of
files or directories containing skycat plugins. A skycat
plugin is a Tcl script that defines a Tcl proc to be called
for each instance of the main window. The script is sourced
before any windows are created and can also load shared
libraries dynamically to add new features.  See the Skycat
User's Guide (ftp://ftp.archive.eso.org/pub/skycat/docs) for
more information.
.SH FILES
http://archive.eso.org/skycat/skycat2.0.cfg - default 
configuration file.
.SH SEE ALSO
rtd(1)
