.TH RTD "1" "March 2009" "RTS" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
rtd - real-time image display application

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rtd
\fIoptions filename\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
The rtd application is used to display FITS images in real-time.
The application is based on "rtdimage", a Tk image extension
for displaying FITS images. 

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-file name\fR
"name" specifies a FITS format file to load and
display.
.TP
\fB\-subsample bool\fR
If bool is true, subsampling is used when shrinking
the image, i.e.: if the image is shrunk by 1/3, only
every third pixel is displayed. Otherwise, the maximum
value is taken from the group of pixels.
.TP
\fB\-sampmethod n\fR (experimental)
If option 'subsample' is false, the following methods can be
used for displaying a shrunk image (i.e. an image with a scale
factor < 1):
.IP "0"
max value of all pixels in a NxN box (default)
.IP 1
min value of all pixels in a NxN box
.IP 2
mean value of all pixels in a NxN box
.IP 3
median value of all pixels in a NxN box
.IP 4
max value of pixels on a diagonal cross in a NxN box
.IP 5
min value of pixels on a diagonal cross in a NxN box
.IP 6 
mean value of pixels on a diagonal cross in a NxN box
.IP 7
median value of pixels on a diagonal cross in a NxN box
.IP 8
median value of pixels in a chess-board like box
.IP 9
median value of a 3x3 box
.TP
\fB\-usexshm bool\fR
If bool is true (default), attempt to use X shared
memory for the image display, if available. This
improves performance considerably, but is only
available when working on the system console.

.TP
\fB\-usexsync bool\fR
If true, try to use X synchronisation.

.TP
\fB\-verbose bool\fR
If bool is true, diagnostic messages are printed out
to show what is going on internally (for debugging
use).

.TP
\fB\-default_cmap\fR
This option sets the default colormap file to use when
starting up.  Only the root of the filename should be
specified for this option, for example: "ramp" for a grey
level colormap.  For a list of available colormap files, see
the colormaps directory in the rtd release.

.TP
\fB\-min_colors n\fR
.TP
\fB\-max_colors n\fR
Specify the min and max number of colors to allocate before
using a private colormap.

.TP
\fB\-default_itt
This option is similar to \-default_cmap, except it
sets the default ITT (intensity transfer table) file
to use at startup.  ITT files are also stored in the
colormaps directory.

.TP
\fB\-xscale xs\fR
.TP
\fB\-yscale ys\fR
Set the default scaling factors (default: 1).

.TP
\fB\-camera name\fR
Set the camera name for real-time image events:
default: taken from the RTD_CAMERA environment
variable, if set, otherwise set to RTDSIMULATOR, for
simulation test mode.

.TP
\fB\-zoom_factor number\fR
Set the scale factor for the zoom window (default 5 x
the original image).

.TP
\fB\-colorramp_height h\fR
Set the height of the colorramp subwindow (default: 20).

.TP
\fB\-with_zoom_window bool\fR
If bool is true (default), add a zoom window.

.TP
\fB\-with_pan_window bool\fR
If bool is true (default), add a panning window.

.TP
\fB\-dozoom bool\fR
If true, turn on zoom window.
    
.TP
\fB\-disp_image_icon bool\fR
If true, display a copy (view) of the image as an icon.

.TP
\fB\-drag_scroll bool\fR
If true, set bindings to scroll with the middle mouse button.

.TP
\fB\-scrollbars bool\fR
If true, display scrollbars to scroll the image.

.TP
\fB\-port port\fR
 Default port for remote connections (0 means system chooses a
 port).
  
.TP
\fB\-debug bool\fR
 Debugging flag: enables real-time simulation with testProg
 (below).

.TP
\fB\-testprog path\fR
For testing: name of test program used to generate real-time
updates (tRtd).

.TP
\fB\-interval n\fR
For testing: interval between updates in ms.

.TP
\fB\-with_perftest bool\fR
If true, display performance tester utility in menu bar.

.TP
\fB\-with_warp bool\fR
Option to warp the mouse pointer.

.SH FILES
$RTD_LIBRARY/../demos/rtd.tcl

.SH SEE ALSO
rtdServer(1),RtdClient(1),RtdCubeDisplay(1),skycat(1)
